## High resolution global gridded data for use in population studies 

David Roh -
Reading Response 2/10/2020 

Perspective Question: In the Lloyd et al. article, the authors introduce a method that uses a number of different openly available geospatial datasets in order to produce high resolution, global gridded descriptions of human populations. Describe the geospatial datasets the authors are using in their methodology. How is their method an improvement when compared to a conventional census? Are you able to describe how the authors use a number of different geospatial layers with their data science method in order to produce a high resolution, global gridded description of human population?

  The new method introduced by the authors uses the Geographic Information System (GIS) to process raster topography data with vector country boundary data. There are four major types of datasets that form the basis, which are topography grids, slope grids, country identification grids, and country area grids. To produce the WorldPop Archive, they used datasets such as GADM, GPW, and Globcover. They also incorporated different layers of geospatial datasets such as settlement locations, settlement extents, land cover, roads, building maps, health facility locations, satellite nightlights, vegetation, topography, and refugee camps to produce a more accurate representation.  
  This new method is an improvement compared to a conventional census due to its scale and disaggregation. The high scalability of this new method lets the area that the data is being collected in be presented at a high resolution (100m x 100m tiles). Data sets are also disaggregated, meaning specific sub-levels can be pulled out from the big original dataset to fit on the grid cells of the map, accurately showing population density. Disaggregation of data increases the precision of the representation as well. They use raster images which have pixels with a discrete (x,y) location and value. This lets elevation and terrain models of the Earth's surface to be represented. 
