# Wardrop Article Response 

## Jonghyuck (David) Roh  2/17/20

Response Question: In the reading for today, the authors introduce a top-down method as well as a bottom-up-method. Describe the two methods. Compare and contrast. What advantages do these new methodologies present when compared to past approaches? Examples of each? 

Throughout the article, the importance of a high-spatial resolution population data is emphasized. To obtain a high-spatial resolution population data, aggregated census data must first be disaggregated in order to produce a more accurate and representative data as the census data has many limitations such as arbitrary boundaries for demographic variables of interest and the inaccuracy of the enumeration area design. Due to these limitations, there were several problems in emergency situations such as the Ebola outbreak in West Africa while calculating the infection rates as the required population data was unknown. This affected other areas such as allocation of resources and estimation of project costs as well. Because of these problems, the author discusses about the two methodologies: Top-down and bottom-up. 

The Top-Down method uses the dasymetric mapping techniques to disaggregate areal unit representations into a more spatially refined distribution. Dasymetric mapping techniques use ancillary ("covariate") data to define a functional relationshp between population density and the used covariate data to produce fine-scaled, high spatial-resolution grid cells to represent the population distributions. Some early examples of this top-down method are the proportional allocation of population counts to grid cells within each administrative area and the smoothing across boundaries. The recent advancements to the satellite imagery and machine-learning techniques also aid this method to produce an even more accurate representation of human population distribution. However, one major challenge to this method is related to the fact that it uses census data as its input. Because of this, the resulting disaggregated population distribution is only as reliable as the input census population counts, which in some cases is difficult to accurately obtain. 

The second method presented by the author is called bottom-up and its main difference when compared to the top-down approach lies in its input data. Instead of using the whole census population data, it relies on a microcensus which presents a representative sample that captures the range of densities, demographics, and environments that exist across the area of interest. Then, it uses geospatial covariate data to create an estimation of the population with high spatial-resolution gridcells. An example of the bottom-up style approach is using a global linear regression to quantify the relationship between the log of population count and the log of urban area, estimating the national populations based on the percentage of the population in each country thought to live in urban areas. By using additional covariate data, such as distance to roads, slope, surface temperature, etc, the accuracy of the estimation can be improved. However, there are limitations to this as well. One limitation is that although microcensus is more easily collected compared to the national census, it also may have more errors. Another limition is that because microcensus, unlike the national census, is more easily available, people outside the country of interest also have access to it, enabling them to make claims about it. The author suggests openness and transparency in order to address these limitations.  
